***Beat Kontrol***

*1. Project Description*

In this project, I am going to create a sketch in which allows me to use
my drum kit to directly affect the aesthetics of my screen. This project
is very influenced by drummer/musician Zach Danziger. He has a band
called Edit Bunker, which does real time manipulation of visuals
triggered directly by triggers placed on his drums, or through
midi-controller drum pads. This would give me full control over the
visuals that are displayed on the screen, as well as allowing me full
musical control using my principal instrument, the drums. I would be
able to produce a piece that I would have both musical and visual
control over.

*2. Methodology*

I intend to deal with this project with a slow step-by-step approach.
Firstly, I am going to work on the sketch. I will use Fast Fourier
Transform (FFT) to allow my sketch to analyze the frequencies present in
the audio signal going in. Next, I would split and assign the
frequencies into ranges: LOW, MID and HIGH. Following that, I would then
map each range to a certain set of actions be it triggering a random
color or a certain visual effect, and so on. The possibilities are
endless because the grooves and beats and sounds I can come up with on
the drums are limitless, which would directly mean the visual
possibilities would be endless as well.

To document this piece, I will be shooting a video of my whole
performance. This will take place in my drum room at home. A mini
portable projector will be used to project the visuals from my computer
on to an empty wall in my room. Then using 1 condenser microphone to
pick up and send the audio of my drums into the computer, it will allow
the data to be processed, hence giving you the whole spectrum of colors
in my circles.

*3. Visual Sketches*

Below are some examples of how I want the visuals of this project to
resemble:

![alt text](https://blog.hubspot.com/hubfs/colorcontext.png "Logo Title Text 1")

![alt text](http://images.all-free-download.com/images/graphiclarge/free_vector_circle_shapes_557151.jpg "Logo Title Text 1")



What I am trying to achieve in this is that there will be a number of
circles within a set number of big circles. To spice things up, the
color of each circle is and will be directly affected by the frequencies
that are being fed into the sketch. Also as mentioned before, the
amplitude in which the audio signal is being fed in also affects how the
colors and circles react.

*4. Sound Track Details*

For this project, I will be exploring the entirety of my drum kit. This
means all sounds, squeaks and noises will be coming purely from the
acoustic drum kit that I have. Many people under utilize the drums, as I
believe that it can be used not only as a conventional drum kit, but it
can also possess the ability to create nice soundscapes for interesting
visuals to lay on top of. I will be exploring the whole range of
frequencies that the drum kit possesses, like the low fundamentals of
the bass drum, as well as the screeching high frequencies of the
cymbals.

*5. References*

**Critter & Guitari’s RhythmScope**

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fB-C2JRoTSo>

This project is very similar to mine in the sense that the drummer in
the video is using 2 microphones as pickups to send audio into the code
which then processes it into data, giving you the wide array of colors
and shapes that you see on the projector.

**Zach Danziger’s “A Week With”**

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7B-g-l-13o8>

I initially drew inspiration from this video, as I feel like it
transcended many boundaries set by playing contemporary music. By using
triggers and midi-controllers, he was able to gain complete control over
the visuals by adding glitches, color changes and etc.

6. Conclusion

All in all, my piece will be INTERACTIVE, AUDIO REACTIVE, LIVE
PERFORMANCE, FRANTIC.
